#summary Introductory resources for ActivityInfo developpers
#sidebar ContributorGuideSideBar

= Introduction =

ActivityInfo takes advantage of an array of Java technologies. Here are few resources for learning these different components

= Resources =

=== Google Web Toolkit (GWT) ===

GWT was the main reason for choosing the Java platform for ActivityInfo rather than .NET.

  * [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/ Project page] 
  * [http://www.mkhelif.fr/2008/07/03/gwt-introduction-au-framework.html Introduction / Tutorial en français] 
  * [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/tutorials/1.6/gettingstarted.html Tutorial in English]

=== Ext-GWT (GXT) ===

Ext-GWT or GXT is fairly complete widget library for GWT that has made it easy to implement an Office/Desktop-like interface for ActivityInfo. Though we're starting to have the time to branch out it more fluent, web-like interfaces, GXT still forms the core of the user interface.

  * [http://www.extjs.com/products/gxt/ Product home page]
  * [http://www.extjs.com/helpcenter/nav/0_0 Getting started screen cast]

=== GoogleMaps === 

  * [http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/index.html API Reference]

=== Dependency Injection (DI) ===

ActivityInfo uses DI extensively to keep components decoupled and enable unit testing. 

  * Here is an [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hBVJbzAagfs&feature=player_embedded introduction to DI and Guice specifically] 
  * Article en français: [http://blog.xebia.fr/2009/04/15/google-guice-les-bases-de-linjection-de-dependances/ L'injection de dépendances]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/google-guice/ The Guice project page]

=== MVP + DI FTW === 

The ActivityInfo client side application is built around two, really three key ideas:

  * The Model-View-Presenter (MVP) pattern, wherein we try to build UI components such that they delegate all or most logic to an easy-to-test presenter class.
  * Dependency Injection (see above)
  * The remote command pattern
  * The event bus pattern

These concepts are layed out in an [http://code.google.com/events/io/2009/sessions/GoogleWebToolkitBestPractices.html excellent video presentation] by Ray Ryan.

=== Other client side libraries ===

  * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-log/ Gwt-Log] from Fred Sauer helped solve the great November IE6 crisis. 

=== Hibernate ===

[http://www.hibernate.org Hibernate] is the Object-Relational Mapping toolkit that implements the JPA specification. It is responsible for moving the domain objects to and from the database.
