#summary General rules and habits when contributing to Sigmah
#sidebar ContributorGuideSideBar

= Introduction =

This page gathers all the rules and habits that have been taken by the contributors on the Sigmah code.
It is useful to read it as an introduction when joining the project, to be acknowledgeed of how to fit your contribution in the same trend, in order to keep the development and the final perception of the user homogeneous.
Later on, if you perceive explicitly a new habit or wants to describe an implicit rule, you're welcome to update this page !


= Rules for user perception =

  * Avoid to display in final release buttons or link to non-working or half-working part of the application: users will always get disappointed that something is not working yet.



= Rules on the code =
  * [IssueTrackingDrivenDevelopment Issue-tracking driven development]
  * [Versioning]



= Rules for coordination with translators =

  * "_Developers develop & translators translate_": In order to reduce the risks of conflict on the UIConstants and UIMessages properties files, developers should avoid to edit the translated version of them (the ones with a `_`fr, `_`en or `_`es suffix). The French or Spanish developers can write the translation of the new strings they create, but the modification of already existing strings should be avoided as much as possible.
  * "_I delete code, I check the constant strings_": Translators, as developers, don't like to work for no reason. So if a developer deletes some code containing an I18N string, and has a doubt whether this string is used anywhere else and could be deleted, he should check in ths code if this string is still used after his deletion. If it is no more used, it should be deleted.
  * "_Give context to all my strings_": Translators *love* to have as much context as possible about what they have to translate, because it really helps their job. Thus, developers should try to add a comment (starting with the "#" character) on the line before each string they add. This comment should describe the string, and gives at best at least one screen in which it appears.