#summary Planning of the sprints of development.

= Introduction =
This page is used to share a global view where the 2 threads of development (by bedatadriven and Ideia) are going in a middle term in order to improve coordination.

= Ideia's planning =
== Sprint 1 (09/27 to 11/03) ==
  * ONG object
  * Logical framework
  * Calendar
  * New flexibles elements
  * Handler for project categories

== Sprint 2 (11/04 to 11/26) ==
  * Operational base object
  * Funding object
  * Quality framework
  * Reports
  * Authentication mechanism

== Sprint 3 (11/30 to 12/17) ==
  * Fields history
  * Dashboards
  * Notifications attached to file upload fields
  * Key questions
  * Report drafts

== Sprint 4 (01/03 to 01/18) ==
  * Contextual manual
  * Project revisions
  * Administration: user management

== Sprint 5 (01/19 to 02/11) ==
  * Project revisions history
  * Copy/paste of the logical framework
  * Reminders in the main dashboard
  * Password retrieval

== Sprint 6 (02/14 to 03/08) - current ==
  * First features of the offline mode: access to the application in offline mode, on/offline toggle button, implicit connection, (organizational units list).
  * Manage the change of the project manager and organizational unit.
  * Performance enhancement when retrieving a projects list.

= In'Tech =
== Sprint 1 (12/13 to 12/17) - current ==
  * Adding administration page.
  * Adding button to administration page.
  * Adding model page.

= Groupe URD =
== Sprint 1 (02/23 to 03/12) - current ==
  * Project models administration.
== Sprint 2 (03/12 to 03/18)==
  * Organizational unit models administration.
  * Project report models administration.

= bedatadriven =

== Sprint 3 (7-March - 18-March) - current ==
  * Adaptation of the Site + Pivot table components to Sigmah style 
  * Indicator linking / copying



== UNICEF Funded - to begin sometime in 2011 ! ==

=== Sprint 2 (Pending) ===	

5a.	Dynamic mapping (1)
5b.	Mapping of sites with grouping by administrative level (1)
5c.	Multi-layer mapping (1)
5d.	Map legends (1)
14.	Search Engine (1)

=== Sprint 3 (Pending) ===	
17a.	Locking data (1)
18.	Link between indicators in different user databases (1)
1.	Targets (2)

=== Sprint 4 (Pending) ===

4.	Dashboard (2)
28.	Photo and document attachment (2)
30.	Data collection forms (3)
31.	User List Export (2)

=== Sprint 5 (Pending) ===
10.	Pivot by location (2)
21.	Site TreeView (2)

=== Sprint 6 (Pending) ===
8.	Report Definition User Interface (3)
34.	Pivot Graphs (3)
29.	Public informational site (3)
3.	Contextual documentation (3)

=== Sprint 7 (Pending) ===

12.	Publication of sites (4)
33.	Link between assessments and response (3)
6.	Chloropleth mapping (3)	